Edited introductory text for clarity (tech writer) (#148)
canonical/ubuntu-server-documentation: explanation/intro-to/ebpf.md

[eBPF](https://ebpf.io/) is a powerful tool for server and system
administrators, often described as a lightweight, sandboxed virtual

> machine within the kernel. Often it can handle performance monitoring,

Author: reverted.

tools limited to the interfaces exposed to user-space.

BPF, which stands for "Berkeley Packet Filter", was originally designed to
perform network packet filtering. Over time, it has evolved into *extended Berkeley
Packet Filter* (eBPF), a tool which contains many additional capabilities, including 
the use of more registers, support for 64-bit registers, data stores (Maps), and 
more.

As a result, eBPF has been extended beyond the kernel networking subsystem and 
it not only enhances the networking experience, but also provides tracing, 

> profiling, observability, security, etc.  The terms eBPF and BPF are  
> used interchangeably but both refer to eBPF now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
profiling, observability, security, etc. The terms eBPF and BPF are used interchangeably but both refer to eBPF now.
```

Reviewer: The rendered page had a weird break in it - not sure why, but hopefully this will fix it

## eBPF in Ubuntu Server

Since Ubuntu 24.04, `bpftrace` and `bpfcc-tools` (the BPF Compiler Collection or BCC) are
available in every Ubuntu Server installation by default as part of our efforts 
to [enhance the application developer's and sysadmin's experience in
Ubuntu](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/spec-include-performance-tooling-in-ubuntu/43134).

> In Ubuntu, the BCC identifies bottlenecks, investigates performance degradation, traces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Ubuntu, you can use tools like the BCC to identify bottlenecks, investigate performance degradation, trace
```

Reviewer: The user is the one doing the investigating, BCC is just what they can use to do it :)

> specific function calls, and creates custom monitoring tools to collect data on specific 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specific function calls, and create custom monitoring tools to collect data on specific 
```

## eBPF in Ubuntu Server

> Since Ubuntu 24.04, `bpftrace` and `bpfcc-tools` (the BPF Compiler Collection) are

Author: Done.

available in every Ubuntu Server installation by default as part of our efforts 
to [enhance the application developer's and sysadmin's experience in
Ubuntu](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/spec-include-performance-tooling-in-ubuntu/43134).

In Ubuntu, the BPF Compiler Collection (BCC) and  `bpftrace` identify
bottlenecks, investigate performance degradation, trace specific function calls, 
or create custom monitoring tools to collect data on specific kernel or user-space 
processes without disrupting running services.

Both `bpftrace` and `bpfcc-tools` install sets of tools with 

> functionalities. Apart from the `bpftrace` tool itself, you can fetch

Author: makes sense to me.

10:58:17 1000  vte-urlencode-c  1323227 1322857   0 /usr/libexec/vte-urlencode-cwd
```

## eBPF can be modified to your needs

Let us look at another practical application of eBPF. This example is meant to show

> another use-case with eBPF then evolve this case into a more complex tool by modifying it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
another use-case with eBPF then evolve this case into a more complex one by modifying it.
```

10:58:17 1000  vte-urlencode-c  1323227 1322857   0 /usr/libexec/vte-urlencode-cwd
```

## eBPF can be modified to your needs

Let us look at another practical application of eBPF. This example is meant to show
another use-case with eBPF then evolve this case into a more complex tool by modifying it.

### Example - Find out which files is my QEMU loading

Let’s say you want to verify which binary files are loaded with a particular 
command line command using QEMU. That is a truly complex program and sometimes 
it can be hard to make the connection from a command line to the files used from 
/usr/share/qemu. This is hard to determine when you define the QEMU
command line, but becomes problematic when more useful layers of abstraction are
used like libvirt or LXD or even things on top like OpenStack.

While `strace` could be used, but it would add additional overhead to the 
investigation process since `strace` uses `ptrace`, and context
switching may be required. Furthermore, if you need to monitor a system 
to produce this answer, especially on a host running many VMs, `strace` 
quickly reaches its limits.

> Instead, `opensnoop` could be used to trace `open()` syscalls. In this case,

Author: makes sense. reverted.

```

Of course the QEMU process opens plenty of things: shared libraries, config
files, entries in `/{sys,dev,proc}`, and much more. But with `opensnoop-bpfcc`,
we can see them all as they happen across the whole system.

> ### Focusing on a particular type of file that is loading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Focusing on a specific file type
```

Imagine you only wanted to verify which `.bin` files this is loading. Of course, 
we could just use `grep` on the output, but this whole section is about showing

> eBPF examples that can get you started. So here we make the simplest change --

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eBPF examples to get you started. So here we make the simplest change --
```

```

Of course the QEMU process opens plenty of things: shared libraries, config
files, entries in `/{sys,dev,proc}`, and much more. But with `opensnoop-bpfcc`,
we can see them all as they happen across the whole system.

> ### Discovering which particular kind of file is loading

Author: Makes sense to me. Changed.

             try:
```

Running the modified version now allows you to probe for specific file 

> names, like all the .bin files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
names, like all the `.bin` files:
```
